Hi, Mystery Recapped here.
Today I’m going to explain an American science
fiction thriller film called “The Island.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care!
At the beginning of the movie, two people
are in the middle of the boat on the ocean.
As the male protagonist clasps his hand with
the female, he is drowned by three other creepy-looking
persons into the ocean.
Suddenly, Lincoln Six Echo snaps awake and
realizes that it was just a dream.
A slick LED display above the bed greets Lincoln
with a good morning message.
Subsequently, another display on his wall
requests his presence at the tranquility center
for a wellness evaluation.
As Lincoln pees, the toilet recognizes that
his urine has excessive sodium and recommends
nutrition control.
He has a bracelet wrapped in his wrist, which
automatically opens a drawer filled with his clothes
When Lincoln steps out of his room, we see
plenty of others in there who wear the same
clothes as him.
Lincoln and others wearing white stroll together
and enter the lift.
As the lift continues down, holograms play
along the walls showing snapshots of a beautiful
tranquil island among sparkling blue ocean.
The residents are told that the outside world
has become too contaminated to support life,
with the exception of a pathogen-free island.
Each week, one resident gets to leave the
compound and live on the island by way of
a lottery.
Just then, this week’s lottery winner is
announced.
The winner is Starkweather Two Delta.
An image of Starkweather Two Delta appears,
speaking joyfully about how it was always
his dream to go to the island.
As the lift reaches its destination, Lincoln
continues to walk along the compounds.
In the background, various people engage in
various chores like yoga activities, fitness
exercise, and swimming; all seem content,
but black-tracksuited supervisors are shown
keeping close watch all throughout.
The citizens of the compound, all of whom
wear white tracksuits, are treated well, but
their lives are strictly regimented and regulated.
At the cafetaria, Lincoln swipes his bracelet
and asks for bacon; however, the nutritionist
advises him against it...for health purposes.
Seeing this, Lincoln’s best friend, Jordan
Two Delta tells him to "watch and learn”;
she pleases the nutritionist and cheats her
way with bacon.
They talk for a while, but the guards alert
them of engaging in far too much proximity.
She slides the bacon into Lincoln’s plate
as they separate.
Lincoln arrives at the office of Dr. Merrick,
the presiding doctor for the compound.
He inquires him about his friendship with
Jordan; and explains that there are proximity
rules against regular close-up contact.
He is further questioned about the nightmare.
He explains to the doctor his nightmare.
When he is probed, he confesses that he has
begun to question the regimentation of life
at the compound; why is Tuesday night 'tofu
night?'
He wants some bacon for his breakfast, and
he wants to wear different colors other than
white for his clothes; and there should be
more to life at the compound than just waiting
to go the Island.
Dr. Merrick calmly tries to explain that he
is lucky to have survived the contaminated
earth, and how the island is the only clean
place left.
He further explains that he himself, and all
other staff and supervisors at the compound,
are ineligible to win the Lottery, and cannot
ever go to The Island, as they are needed
to keep the compound facility operating smoothly.
Then, Dr. Meerick wants to run some tests
on Lincoln and has him tied on a reclining seat.
He places some devices on Lincoln’s cheek
that crawl into his eye.
He assures Lincoln that these micro-sensors
will upload data for twenty-four hours, and
then pass out through his urine.
Lincoln then arrives at the work center for
work.
He and a citizen named Jones Three Echo are
using infuser tools to feed nutrients into
tubes that lead to where the citizens' meals
are prepared.
Lincoln is bored with the job, although Jones
finds it satisfying.
The calm of the work center is suddenly broken
as a female citizen, Lima One Alpha, collapses.
Lima One Alpha is heavily pregnant, and it
appears she's gone into labor.
The other women near her are ecstatic for
her, as she is now destined to go to the Island
with her baby.
Lincoln then illicitly visits a power-plant
basement where his friend, technician James
McCord works.
There, he discovers a live moth in the ventilation
shaft; he captures the bug and hides it inside
a matchbox.
In the evening, Lincoln tells Jordan about
the flying bug he found...leading him to realize
that the outside world might not be contaminated.
He has a feeling that something is wrong.
Jordan however is baffled at how Lincoln Six
Echo is convinced of bad things being hidden..
behind the seemingly good life at the compound.
Soon after, the walls in the social center
light up with holographic displays as the
Lottery begins.
Citizens all around the compound stop and
begin watching nearby monitors and screens.
The Community Announcer begins the usual speech
about the Lottery and a lucky winner heading
to the Island.
The spin soon begins.
As it stops, Jordan’s name is shown in the
hologram; cheer and applause erupt.
She is frozen.
Lincoln seems unhappy at the thought of losing
his best friend, and at the chance of going
to the Island slipping away one more time.
To congratulate her, he touches her arm and
says goodbye.
The supervisor halts their brief union as
it breached the proximity rule.
That night, Lincoln sees the same nightmare
again.
He awakes suddenly, leaning up to look at
the flying insect and his face lights up with
an idea.
He sneaks along the compound into Sector Six
and releases the insect.
It flies, and he follows; he ends up in a
hallway in a medical sector.
He ducks through a door, finding a utility
closet with a number of blue medical lab coats;
one of which he puts on.
As he navigates his way through the medical
center, he looks through the window of a medical
room, and sees Lima One Alpha delivering the
baby.
Suddenly, the doctor injects something into
her body, and she starts trembling and then dies.
Meanwhile, the nurse carries the baby into
another room and presents the newly-born girl
to a couple.
The woman looks exactly like Lima One Alpha.
Lincoln is shocked and goes into the nurse
station.
He finds Starkweather Two Delta lying on an
operating table in the surgery room.
As they are about to make an incision through
his chest, Starkweather Two Delta wakes up
and starts to run.
He is chased by several guards and is finally
hounded by a gun.
Lincoln hides in a corner watching this.
Dr. Merrick comes into the security room to
ask about the incident.
Upon close surveillance, the doctor realizes
that the disguised Lincoln had seen everything.
He rings the alarm bells and wants Lincoln
captured.
Meanwhile, Lincoln heads towards the compound
where girls reside to try and rescue Jordan.
Lincoln finds Jordan and tries to make her
understand that there is no Island and that
she will soon be killed for organs.
She is beyond surprised.
He convinces her, and they both run to escape
from the establishment.
Several guards chase them; but they escape
through a series of underground corridors,
and finally emerge into the outside world.
Outside, they continue to run while staring
in wonder at the world around them.
Although the terrain is rocky, and looks barren,
they are very able to breathe the air.
There's no trace of any contamination.
As they see a living snake, they now believe
that the earth is not contaminated and the
Island is just a lie.
Back in the compound, the Community Announcer
delivers fabricated news that Lincoln has
been quarantined due to the exposure to the
contamination, while Jordan has been safely
transported to the Island.
Elsewhere, the truth about this compound is
revealed as Dr. Merrick makes a sales presentation
to potential clients.
It is revealed that this facility is in fact
a bio-engineering facility where Agnates are grown.
An Agnate is a clone of a regular person;
grown directly into adulthood, matching the
biological age of the client; its DNA completely
identical to the client's.
An Agnate is meant as a source of replacement
body parts for an ailing client.
Female Agnates can also serve as surrogate
wombs for a female client who cannot carry
a baby herself.
However, Dr Merrick falsely claims that the
Agnates are kept in a vegetative state, never
achieving consciousness; never think, or feel
anything; they are products; and not humans.
After the presentation, Dr. Merrick hires
Burkinabé mercenary, Albert Laurent, to find
and return Lincoln and Jordan to the compound.
Dr. Merrick explains that the world doesn't
know that the Agnate products are alive.
If knowledge of this becomes public, the Institute
will be shut down for ethical violations.
Dr Merrick explains that locating Jordan Two
Delta is particularly paramount.
Her sponsor, the person she’s cloned from,
is Sarah Jordan; she is comatose following
a car accident.
Without multiple organ transplants, she'll
die within three days.
This explains the "Lottery"; an Agnate "wins"
when their sponsor requires body part harvest.
Elsewhere, Lincoln and Jordan reach a bar
where they manage to find McCord. and he takes
the two of them to his home.
There, he explains to them about their existence;
how they are human clones meant to serve as
sources of body parts for the people they're
cloned from.
The memories they have of their respective
childhoods, families, and lives before the
contamination are basic memory imprints.
McCord also explains their names: Lincoln
and Jordan are the surnames of their sponsors.
Echo means that Lincoln has been alive for
three years, while Delta means Jordan is four.
The Two in Jordan's name is a regional code
for New York, where Sarah Jordan livz; Six
is a regional code for Los Angeles, where
Lincoln's sponsor, Tom Lincoln livz.
Lincoln and Jordan decide that they must locate
their sponsors and spread the truth of their
existence and the Institute.
McCord assists them with maps, credit cards,
cash, and one crucial piece of advice; to
not trust any human.
Meanwhile, Laurent and his team locate Lincoln
and Jordan through the micro-sensors inside
Lincoln’s body.
The men arrive there and kill McCord.
But the other two somehow manage to board
the train to Los Angeles.
They expect to meet Lincoln’s sponsor there.
After a lot of struggles, they finally arrives
at Tom Lincoln's estate.
Lincoln peeks into a security camera near
the door; it reads his retinal prints, which
are a match for his sponsor's; the door unlocks
and opens for them.
The two of them go inside and find photos
of Tom Lincoln.
At that moment, Tom Lincoln comes up from
behind, mistaking them for intruders, and
swings a golf club.
Soon, he freezes in shock and amazement when
he sees Lincoln's face.
They converse for some time, and Tom reveals
that he is suffering from liver damage and
that Lincoln is his insurance policy.
The two agnates reveal to him the reality
of the institute and beg for his help.
Tom assures them to take them to a television
news channel to flash the truth.
Tom asks the two of them to stay there while
he goes up to get a pair of shoes.
In his room, Tom Lincoln secretly calls the
Merrick Institute, and asks them what his
insurance policy is doing at his home.
He comes downstairs, and as they are about
to move, Jordan sees Tom’s eyes and alerts
Lincoln that he is lying.
Tom plans to trick Lincoln to go with him
to bring him to an ambush.
They travel in Tom’s car when suddenly,
Laurent and his team approach them and start
shooting at the vehicle.
Lincoln drives as fast as he can, while engaging
in a fight with Tom.
As the both of them flung out of the vehicle,
Laurent is holding his gun, aiming to shoot
the clone.
Lincoln copies Tom’s Scottish accent making
the two indistinguishable; Laurent is baffled.
He doesn’t know who the real Lincoln is.
Lincoln performs a sleight of hand and adjusts
his bracelet in Tom’s wrist.
Laurent then realizes that the clone would
be wearing a bracelet, and upon seeing one,
he shoots at Tom.
Tom is dead, and his body is sent to the institute.
Lincoln returns to Tom’s estate, and Jordan
and he make love to each other.
Back at the institute, Dr. Merrrick and the
incubation chief find out that the four newest
generations of agnates have shown interesting
neural patterns.
They inherit memory imprints from their sponsors.
Because of this, many agnates have shown the
ability to question, which can be harmful
to the establishment.
Dr. Merrick believes the only solution is
a recall: the termination of half the agnates,
and the disposal of almost 200 million dollars
worth of products.
The mechanism for the recall is already in
place; a large numbers of Agnates will all
be chosen simultaneously as "Lottery winners"
to "go to the Island” for termination.
One such Lottery is shown, and Jones Three
Echo is one of the ones chosen.
Technicians and medical personnel are seen
going to the Incubation room, and prematurely
extracting incubating Agnates from the incubation
pods.
Meanwhile, Lincoln and Jordan plan to save
the living agnates.
Lincoln believes that the holographic control
room is the main base of the establishment.
If he destroys it, all the agnates can see
the reality that the holograms have been hiding
from them.
He dresses like Tom Lincoln and heads towards
Merrick Institute in a chopper.
On the other hand, Jordan allows herself to
be caught by Laurent and taken to the institute
as well.
In the car, Laurent looks thoughtfully at
the thermal implant under the skin of Jordan's
wrist, as she anxiously runs her fingers across
it.
As they arrive, Laurent meets Dr. Merrick
in his office, who expresses his gratitude
for Laurent's services.
However, he learns that Sarah Jordan may not
survive even with the organ transplants.
He now has moral qualms about the clones'
treatment after witnessing their fight for survival.
Elsewhere, Lincoln injures the institute rep,
and heads towards the holographic room, while
Jordan is in bed waiting for her organs to
be taken out for her sponsor, and suddenly,
she opens fire at one of the guards.
She goes out and meets Lincoln and gives him
a key she has stolen.
Meanwhile, the doctors investigate Tom’s
dead body, and realize that it is the client’s
dead body.
They inform Dr. Merrick who hurriedly issues
a warning to find Lincoln.
Some agnates are guaranteed a trip to the
Island but in reality are being taken to be terminated.
Jordan sees that the agnates are being escorted
to a section of the building, and follows them.
Lincoln finds the reactor and tries to shut
down the hologram power grid, but is shot
by Dr. Merrick.
The two fight.
Meanwhile, as the agnates are being loaded
into a lift, Jones is suspicious and tries
to resist.
But they are locked in what turns out to be
an incineration chamber.
The security activates it, and just then,
Jordan arrives.
Laurent soon follows and threatens the security
to deactivate it.
The guard has no choice but to comply.
The agnates gasp for breath, while the reactor
fan overloads and is surging out of control.
Lincoln is being strangled to death by Dr.
Merrick, but he manages to get hold of the
gun and shoots at the doctor’s neck.
The reactor fan spirals out of control and
destroys everything it meets.
Dr. Merrick is dead.
The holographic illusion is now shattered.
All the agnates can see that there is no contamination
in the outside world.
In surprise, all the agnates walk out of the
establishment and wander through the world
they had never seen.
Lincoln and Jordan kiss each other as Laurent
smiles at them.
The movie ends with Lincoln and Jordan sailing
away in a boat together toward an island,
fulfilling their dream of one day going to
such a place.
Subscribe for more videos like this, turn
on notifications, and leave a like to help the channel out
Thank you for watching.